[Music]
14 tricks that will help you survive a
life-or-death situation we hope you will
never run into a rabid dog or a venomous
snake get lost on the high seas or
wander through the hot desert but if you
ever find yourself in any of those
situations it is better to know what you
should do after all you only have a less
than 10 percent chance to survive
Brightside will share some tricks to be
ready for literally anything are you
ready for a survival course and give us
a thumbs up and let's start number 14 if
you are in the open sea imagine this you
are in a lifeboat in the open sea the
waves are raging all around you and
there is no rescue crew to be seen just
yet what should you do three things will
help you survive in this huge basin of
salt water food water and the right body
temperature 1 there is food in the ocean
but you will have to hunt after it in
1942 an English sailor managed to
survive at sea for 133 days because he
built a fishing rod from flashlight
wires if you have any suitable materials
do the same if you don't have anything
at hand make an act from a piece of
clothing dip it in the water to catch
plankton and algae - to get water make a
distiller it consists of two containers
large and small and a piece of
polyethylene water from the large
container will evaporate stay on the
polyethylene and accumulate in the small
container 3 you are more likely to die
from a heat stroke than from hunger
moreover the Sun reflects from the water
and harms the retina of your
I use some of your clothes to cover your
head and eyes number 13 if you get lost
in a desert a desert is not nearly as
romantic as it is shown in adventure
movies when you get lost there try to
move around at night when it gets dark
the temperature can drop from 120 to 60
degrees Fahrenheit if you move around at
night you greatly reduce the risk of
dehydration and heatstroke these tactics
will help you to save up to a gallon of
water per day
many people believe that cacti can be a
source of water in fact there is a toxic
alkaline liquid inside the cacti and it
could poison you a good source of
drinking water in the desert is
underground Springs number 12 if you are
trapped under a building or in a cave if
you get trapped in debris the air
becomes your most valuable resource
that's why it is very important to know
how not to waste it inhale deeply exhale
slowly do not like matches or a lighter
it will take away priceless oxygen do
not shout screaming will make you panic
even worse quicken your breathing and
heartbeat and speed the air flow you
don't want to lose any extra oxygen
remember
take off your shirt or t-shirt and tie
it around your head it will protect you
from suffocation when dust and dirt get
in your face number 11 if you run into a
wolf or a stray dog
wolves often attack those who trespass
on their territory
if the wolf noticed you slowly step back
maintaining eye contact do not turn your
back on it and do not run a lone wolf
will not attack you from the front if
you start running away you will only
provoke him to chase you to scare off a
wild beast as much noise as possible and
get aggressive shout if you happen to
run into a pack of wolves or stray dogs
do not let them surround you lean
against a tree or try to climb it number
make waterproof matches fire is
essential to survive in any weather and
any climate your matches or lighter can
get wet so it's a good idea to make them
waterproof beforehand to do this simply
cover the match with a thin layer of
clear nail polish and dry it wax will
also do it number 9 if you are bitten by
a venomous snake a bite of a venomous
snake is easy to identify the affected
area of your body will start to hurt a
lot immediately after the bite the blood
color can change to maroon or even blue
there will also be severe swelling and
other symptoms a headache blurred vision
stuttering nausea fever what you should
do doctors do not recommend trying to
suck out the poison since you might have
little wounds in your mouth and the
poison can get into your blood through
them however if you are far away from
the hospital that's the only thing you
can do suck out the poison 1 to 2
seconds after the bite constantly
spitting and rinsing your mouth do not
make a tourniquet or press onto the bite
if the poison is concentrated in one
place it will cause tissue necrosis let
the blood flow out a good part of the
poison will go with it
number eight how to tell if you were
bitten by a rabid animal if you were
bitten immediately wash the wound with
warm water and soap even if the animal
did not have rabies bites could easily
give you an infection that animal who
has rabies will leave a wound that will
bleed for a long time then it will turn
red and swell then you will feel a
strong itch get a fever and feel very
annoyed rabies runs for four to seven
days and leads to death that's why it is
so important to see a doctor and get the
vaccine during the incubation period
which lasts one to three days number
seven how to properly signal SOS
[Music]
SOS is more than a Rihanna song if you
are in trouble and with no communication
tools it will be very useful to know how
to properly signal SOS a distress signal
over a long distance SOS signal looks
and sounds like this
three short light flashes or sounds then
three long ones and three short ones
again wait for three seconds after the
signal then repeat it if you receive
three light flashes or three whistles in
response
it means the rescue team is on its way
to you number six learn how to stitch up
all kinds of wounds stitching up wounds
is a practical skill you should learn to
become someone Savior one day if you do
it properly it will help to stop the
bleeding close a large wound prevent
infection from spreading and thus to
save someone's life therefore it is one
of the most useful skills in an
emergency situation number five a rescue
capsule that will save your life the
rescue capsule contains the most
necessary items that will help you warm
up find yourself some food and water and
provide first aid and it takes very
little space take a small jar for
example an empty pill bottle and fill it
with the following items some matches an
adhesive plaster a piece of foil a blade
a fishing hook an antibiotic pill a
small candle a string or a fishing line
a piece of adhesive tape and then
antiseptic napkin this capsule could
save your life one day
number four stay afloat with bound or
damaged hands
retired Navy SEAL Clint Emerson
described a staying flow technique in
his book here is what you should do to
not drown if you find yourself
underwater or in the raging sea with
bound or damaged hands the most
important thing is to control your
breathing do not panic and try to
breathe normally inhale deeply exhale
rapidly if you are not very deep
underwater try diving and jumping moving
to the shore if you are swimming on your
stomach bend your back so that you can
lift your head above the water if you
are in a stormy sea turn your body over
to take a deep breath and continue
swimming to the shore number three how
to set a wet tree on fire this technique
of starting a fire is called a Swedish
fire log set the log vertically make a
star-shaped incision as deep as possible
put some splinters and dry grass inside
the log and set it on fire if you set
the log on fire in this way it will
start burning quickly and last from two
to five hours regardless of size dryness
and wood type by the way you can find
another technique of starting a fire
when you are in trouble in another video
we shared here is a link to it number
two how to shoot properly right side is
strongly against the use of weapons
however in some life-threatening
situations
you just have to protect yourself that's
why it is important to know how to
properly aim and pull on the trigger if
you got a weapon in your hands when you
are pulling the trigger it must be
exactly in the middle of the index
finger pad before you shoot breathe
slowly and evenly
number one fish trap
at night fish come close to the shore or
in shallow water in search of food if
you are lost it is useful to know how to
build a fish trap to get yourself some
food the funnel trap is built from
stones and poles during the night a lot
of fish swim in the funnel and it is
difficult to get out of it to remove the
fish completely cover the outlet and
shake the water you can even fish with
your bare hands with such a trap if you
found this video useful let us know by
hitting the like button if it gets
50,000 likes we'll share some more
videos with survival tips everyone
should know subscribe to our channel to
be the first to see our updates join us
on the bright side